The next verse says, 'Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her.' There are five points I would like to highlight here.

First, Jesus meets this huge crowd near the city gate.  He meets them just outside the city.  The Lord Jesus is on His way. He is coming with all the angels in heaven.  When He comes He will be just outside of the earth, close enough for everyone to see.  The bible says, " For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:  Then we which are alive [and] remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord. 

Second, the crowd is being led by pallbearers carrying a dead man.  The dead man is the reason for this huge gathering.  The atmosphere in this crowd is one of mourning.  It is being lead by Death.  The crowd heading to the city of Nain is being led by Jesus, who is the Life. The atmosphere in Jesus crowd is one of joyfulness.  So Life and Death meet by the gate.  Right now all around the world, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the atmosphere in many cities is one of mourning and fear and uncertainty.  My mother in law in the Philippines doesn't want to watch her favorite news 24 oras because its mostly about Covid-19. Its just creating more fear, and sadness.  Now, if we are following Jesus, the atmosphere is the opposite.  If we are following Jesus, we will be breathing in an atmosphere that is filled with hope, love and joy.  When we follow Jesus, we know it is going to be alright.  The bible says, 'For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.'.  

Third, the dead man is the only son of his mother.  If you have two or more children, and one of them dies, it hurts. But you can find comfort in the fact that you still have other children to carry your legacy.  But if you have only one child, and they die before you, it hurts even more. I can't think of anything worse than for a woman to lose her only child.   God our heavenly Father knows exactly how this woman feels. The bible says, 'For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.'  God's only son, died for us. He knows our pain.

fourth, the mother is a widow.  This fact speaks volumes about what it is like to be in a state of complete trajedy.  First, she loses her husband.  Then, she loses her only adult son.  What a trajedy.  If you happen to be in a similar situation as this woman.  Perhaps you have lost something very precious to you, help is on its way.  The Lord Jesus is on His way.  The bible says, 'For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.'.

Fifth, many people from the city of Nain attended this man's funeral. Notice the word "much people" is used to describe the amount of people in the funeral train. It is the same being used to describe the amount of people following Jesus.  The dead son  may have been a very well known person in the city because many people attended his funeral. Death is well known to everyone.  We all have experience the effects of Death and the sadness it brings. I have personally seen death when my mother died in 1995, when I was only 14 years old.  Then I met death again, 26 years later, in 2016 when my father died. Thousands of people all over the world have died because Covid.  Many have lost their wife, husband, mother, father, children, friend, church member, coworker.  Scientists have developed vaccines to stop people from dying of Covid.  But the God we serve, the greatest scientist of all time, developed a vaccine to stop us from dying of the eternal death.  The bible says, 'For the wages of sin [is] death; but the gift of God [is] eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.'  The Covid vaccines are up to 94% effective. But God's vaccine is 100% effective.  When we believe in God's vaccine, the blood of Jesus, and accept Him as our Lord and Savior, we become 100% effectively immune from Death. Don't be afraid.  My mother and my father died with God's immunity from the second death. When the Lord Jesus comes again with His entourage, they will rise again. Would you say Amen?

